# CS230
CS230 Operating Platforms

•	Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?
The client for this project was The Gaming Room. They wanted to create a web-based game called Draw It or Lose It, loosely based on the 1980’s television game Win, Lose or Draw. The game can consist of multiple players and/or teams of players take turns trying to guess an image that renders to the screen. Once the image is fully rendered, they have to guess the image before time runs out. The game is already an Android application, but The Gaming Room wanted to expand the app to be playable across all platforms, residing on a cloud service and accessible via the web. There can only be one instance of the game in memory at a time, and all players and teams need to be unique.
•	What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
 The thing I think I did well on when creating this documentation is researching. I had many holes in my own knowledge base about the different services offered by an operating system, API’s, cloud services, architectures, and comparing all these entities. Putting this software design document together forced me to state what exactly I didn’t understand, allowing me to be able to research the specific items I had questions about. It’s easy to just say “I’m hosting this app on the cloud”, but actually understanding what all that entails was quite eye opening. 
•	 What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
UML diagrams in the design document are always very helpful when creating the actual code for the software. Taking the requirements and restraints from the client, UML diagrams of the system can be made, and coding the diagrams becomes easy. For this project, we used a structural Class diagram to show the different components of the system and how they relate to one another. This made it very easy to understand what to code. 
•	If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
If I could change one part of my design document it would be the requirements section. I think requirements are the strongest tools to use when creating software, they tell you exactly what is needed. Knowing your requirements and limitations/constraints allows you to create the best possible system. I did not complete the requirements section of this document, but if I had time I would have liked to added a comprehensive requirements section to make the document much more solid. 
•	How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I think one way that I interpreted the user’s needs was by using a Dropwizard API to implement authentication and authorization when logging into the game. User’s need to have a secure login with their own credentials and correct role authorization to ensure that their player account will be safe and consistent. If players cannot trust that their account is secure and not tampered with by unauthorized users, they will not want to play the game. It is always important to consider user’s needs when designing, because user’s are the main actors interacting with the system. The system is built for the users to use, so considering their needs should always be a top priority when designing. 
•	How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
After learning about different design patterns, this project decided to use a Singleton pattern to ensure a single game instance in memory at any time, and a client-server pattern. I think reviewing different patterns and trying to match requirements with the patterns use cases is a strong approach to designing software. From there you can start identifying the different components of the system and move on to structural and behavioral diagrams. I would like to learn more about some of these patterns, and plan to incorporate them in the future when thinking about system’s designs. 
